Guidelines for Rating Dynamic Product Ads Introduction
 
Basic Instructions
When you open the tool, you'll see a series of products. Next, you'll answer a short set of questions about the
products.
 
Consider what products are or are not appropriate for the Instagram or the Facebook community and
explain your answers. Your honest responses are what matter most.
 
Getting Started
Before submitting each rating, view and interact with each ad just as you would in everyday life.
 
For ads in your Instagram or Facebook feed, that might include liking, commenting, sharing, clicking, or hiding
the ad. Use any of these features just as you normally would, but you’re not required to use them.
 
For ads in stories, enter full-screen view to make sure you see the ad as it would look when using Instagram or
Facebook stories.
 
At the end of each question set, explain why you rated the product the way you did. Your written feedback is
very important, so please provide some for each product you rate.
 
QUESTIONS 1 TO 3
Multiple Choice Questions
When you rate an advertised product, you'll be shown a set of multiple choice questions. There are 3 ways to
answer the first few questions:
 
● Not at all
● Somewhat
● Very
 
Question 1: Do you believe this product is offensive to many people?
An offensive product makes people feel bad, hurt, upset or angry. Those feelings can stem from either the
advertised item or the company behind the item.
 
Question 2: Do you believe this product is harmful to many people?
A harmful product may be dangerous, damaging, hurtful, or unhealthy. Consider if the product is likely to
negatively affect the safety and well-being of people on Instagram.
 
Question 3: Do you believe this product is inappropriate to many people?
An inappropriate product makes people feel uncomfortable, concerned, upset or disturbed. The product may
not be troublesome for you, but consider if it is likely to be controversial or undermine positive connections
among people on Instagram or Facebook.
 
QUESTION 4
Multiple Choice
There are 5 ways to answer the next question:
 
1. Definitely should NOT see. Choose this option if many people are likely to have such a negative
reaction to the product that they won't want to see it at all.
2. Maybe should not see. Choose this option if many people would prefer not to see the product if given
a choice, but seeing it would not impact their overall experience on Instagram or Facebook.
3. Doesn't matter if people see or do not see . Choose this option if the product is neutral and it won't
generate positive or negative feelings for most people.
4. Maybe should see. Choose this option if people would be untroubled by seeing the product, but if they
didn't see it, that wouldn't impact their experience on Instagram or Facebook.
5. Definitely should see. Choose this option if people are likely to have such a positive reaction to the
product that many will actually enjoy seeing it.
 
Question 4: Overall, is this the kind of product people should NOT see on Instagram or Facebook?
Consider if this product reflects what people expect to see on Instagram or Facebook. Setting aside your
personal preferences, is the product a good fit for the Instagram or Facebook community?
 
QUESTION 5
Free Response
Use your own words to answer this question.
 
Question 5: In your own words, why do you feel this way about the product?
Please describe what went through your mind when you were looking at the advertised product. What 2 words
best describe your reactions to the product? Why did you feel it was the kind of product people should or
should not see on Instagram or Facebook? What elements of the product were offensive, harmful or
inappropriate?
 
You can also use the free response to discuss aspects of the product you weren't directly asked about. For
example:
● Advertiser Brand: You can describe how you feel about the advertiser.
● Social Reactions: Did likes and comments associated with the product have an impact on you?