An additional copy of the guidelines can be found here.

OOPS Guidelines

Introduction

Project Objective: Identify the advertisements people don't want to see online and understand why they don't want to see them.

Basic Instructions

To access SRT:

Please make sure you are using a laptop or desktop running google chrome.  There are incompatibilities/instability with mobile devices. 
Login here first:  https://srt.facebook.com/ 
(While logged in here) open a new tab and log in here:  https://review.intern.facebook.com/intern/review/
Click on "Resume Reviewing" to begin rating your batch.
When you open the tool, you'll see a series of ads. You'll then be asked a short set of questions to summarize your assessment of each ad.

Your answers to each question should reflect your best judgement about what ads are or are not appropriate for both the Facebook and Instagram community. When assessing each ad, we would like you to think beyond your personal preferences and think about whether the ad would be considered appropriate or inappropriate by many people on both platforms. Just share your honest assessment. Your true responses are what matter most.

Getting Started

What to Do Before Rating an Ad

Before rating each ad, look at it just as you would if you saw the same ad when browsing online.

Before rating the ads, please make sure you understand the questions you will be asked about each ad. If you need a reminder, review these guidelines one more time before you begin. Just be yourself as you answer the questions.

Questions 1 to 3

Multiple Choice Questions

When you rate an ad, you'll be shown a set of multiple-choice questions. There are three ways to answer the first three questions:

Not at all
Somewhat
Very
Question 1: Is this ad offensive for many people?

An offensive ad makes people feel hurt, upset, or angry. Those feelings may stem from either the advertisement itself or the company promoted in the ad. The ad may not upset you, but consider if it is likely to be hurtful or undermine positive connections for many people.

Question 2: Is this ad misleading for many people?

A misleading ad makes people feel deceived, misinformed, or scammed. Those feelings may stem from either the information in the ad itself, or whatever people know about the product or company promoted in the ad. The ad may not be deceiving to you, but consider if it is likely to be deceiving or undermine positive connections for many people.

Question 3: Is this ad inappropriate for many people?

An inappropriate ad makes people feel upset or disturbed. Those feelings may stem from the content in the ad itself. The ad may not be troublesome for you, but consider if it is likely to be controversial or undermine positive connections for many people.

Question 4 Multiple Choice

There are 5 ways to answer the next question:

Definitely should NOT see. Choose this option if many people are likely to have such a negative reaction to the ad that they wouldn't want to see it at all, or it would negatively impact their overall experience.
Maybe should NOT see. Choose this option if many people would prefer not to see the ad if given a choice, but seeing it wouldn't impact their overall experience.
Doesn't matter if people see or do not see. Choose this option if the ad is neutral and wouldn't generate either positive or negative reactions for many people.
Maybe should see. Choose this option if many people would prefer to see the ad if given a choice, but if they didn't see it, that wouldn't impact their overall experience.
Definitely should see. Choose this option if many people are likely to have such a positive reaction to the ad that they would actually want to see it, or it would positively impact their overall experience.
Question 4: Overall, is this the kind of ad people should NOT see on this platform?

Consider if this ad reflects what many people expect to see on this platform. Thinking beyond your personal preferences, is the ad a good fit for many users of this platform? Reflect on why you feel this way, and consider this ad in the context of other ads that appear on this platform.

Question 5 Free Response

For this part, use your own words to answer the question.

Question 5: In your own words, why do you feel this way about the ad?

Please describe what went through your mind when you were looking at the ad. What 2 words best describe your reactions to the ad? Why did you feel it was or was not the kind of ad people should see on Facebook or Instagram? What elements of the ad were offensive, misleading or inappropriate?

You can also use the free response to discuss aspects of the ad you weren't directly asked about. For example:

Advertiser Brand: You can describe how you feel about the advertiser.
Products in the Ad: Discuss items that appear prominently in the ad.
Social Reactions: Did likes and comments associated with the ad have an impact on you?
